Front page for WT

	                                       Online voting for class election.


                                                   PROJECT SYNOPSIS

                                                    OF MINI PROJECT



                                                BACHELOR OF ENGINEERING

                                              Computer Science & Engineering




                                                        SUBMITTED BY

                                                RUDALI HUIDROM (4JC14CS084)
                                              SHUBHASHREE HEBBAR (4JC14CS097)
                                               SMITHA SHESHADRI (4JC14CS100)



                                                       February 2017









                                    SRI JAYACHAMARAJENDRA COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MYSORE
                                    
                                    
                                    
  PR:     INTRODUCTION
  
  Fraud can be defined as the criminal activity i.e. committed by the  criminal  in  order  to  obtain  financial/personal  gain.  Fraud refers   to   the   act   of   deceiving   the   people   to   obtain   the advantage/benefit by using the name of another person. Fraud can be conducted by the use of digital computer i.e. termed as Cybercrime. 
  Fraud  deals  with  cases  that  happen  due  to  criminal  purpose which  are  difficult  to  identify. Fraud  can  be  mainly  divided into two types:

(i) Offline Fraud: 
Most of the offline fraud incidents occur due  to  the  steal  of  purse/wallet  that  contains  important 
documents. Documents such as Driving License, ID card etc.  contains  crucial  information  such  as  name,  date  of birth, transaction slips etc.

(ii) Online   Fraud: 
Online   fraud   occurs   when   fraudster present  their  website  as  a  genuine  website  in  order  to obtain  crucial  personal  data  of  a  customer  and  perform illegal transactions on such customer account
                                    
 Methods to Steal Personal Information:

There are various methods or techniques that cyber criminals used to commit the crime:

(i) Hacking

Hacker is a person who seeks and exploits weakness in computer system. Attacker breaks into 
industry or personal databases.

(ii) Phishing:

Phishing is a fraudulent attempt, usually made through email, to steal your personal information.

(iii) Spoofing:

The word "spoof" means to hoax, trick, or deceive. Spoofing refers to tricking or deceiving the computer users. This is typically done by hiding one's identity or faking the identity of another user on the Internet.

(iv) Spyware:

The computer user unknowingly downloads software from the Internet that contains spyware. Spyware collects personal information from your computer and transmits it to fraudster or attacker.

(iv) Shoulder Surfing: 
An attacker watches a bank customer from a nearby location as the customer punches in his personal information. If the customer is giving his personal information over the phone (e.g., to a hotel or car rental company), the attacker may listen to the conversation so as to obtain personal information of bank customer

(v)Dumpster

Diving: An attacker goes through a customer‟s garbage cans or trash bins to obtain personal information of bank customer such as bank statement, payment receipt etc.
      
      
There are some cases that can analyze whether the transaction is suspicious or genuine:

If the user is taking long time to perform the transaction 
than  the  routine  time  (number  of  times  that  the  user  can 
take  time)  then  there  may  be  a  chance  that  user  is 
suspicious means user is fraudster
. 
Example: Suppose the 
bank customer normally 
takes 60 seconds to perform the 
transaction and suddenly the user is taking 10 minutes to 
perform  the  transaction  then  the  user  is  found  to  be 
suspicious.

Suppose  the  user  performs  the  transaction  in  India  at 
11:00 AM by providing his details and same user
details 
are  used  in  England  at  12:00  AM  then  there  may  be 
possibility that transaction is fraudulent.

A customer performs similar type of transaction in terms 
of  amount  and  suddenly  the  customer  is  purchases  an 
item  from  shopping  website  which  is  costly  t
hen  there 
may be possibility that transaction is fraudulent.
Existing  system  is  based  on  two  parameters  i.e.  Address 
Mismatch  and  Spending  Behavior  to  prevent  from  fraudulent 
transactions.  In  case  of  address  mismatch,  the  user  shipping 
address  is  compared 
with  the  delivery  address  and  risk  score 
is   calculated   by   Bayesian   learning   approach.   In   case   of 
Spending  Behavior,  it  will  identify  the  customer  previous 
transaction and compares the current transaction amount with 
the   previous   transactions   amount.   Theref
ore   in   existing 
system  of  fraud  detection  the  fraudulent  transaction  can  be 
identified  once  the  fraud  has  happened.  It  is  difficult  to  find 
out fraudulent transaction once it has done.

It  is  difficult  to  track  user  behavior  because  the  user 
behavior change
s constantly. 
